# Team Camil'La'Shay

Last week, we experienced working as a coding team for the first time, rotating who would actually write code and who would serve as 'team lead'.  Programming as a team is a completely different beast from programming as an individual.  The _way_ in which you work is as important as the work itself.  This is why **communication**, **organization**, and **chemistry** are so important to a good dev team.

My team was amazing.  We had great **chemistry**, which is hard to quantify, but easy to identify.  When I was the one coding, the team lead for the day was very supportive and attentive to the work I was doing.  (Sometimes a bit _too_ attentive, but overall helpful).  It seemed that our team was hesitant to truly take the lead as team lead or make a decisive call on behalf of the group.  There were probably times when that was good so that everyone could have a say in what we did next, but there were also times when it would have been helpful for the team lead to simply state what we were going to do and then told us to get to work.  We had good **communication** because we generally worked in the same room with the team lead sitting between the two coders.  When we weren't in the same space we communicated via a private slack group to make sure we were all on the same page.

When I was the team lead, I tried to stay out of the nitty gritty of the code and keep the 30,000 ft view on the **organizational** side of things.  I focused on time management, the effects of how the two parts would go together when we merged, when to stop banging our head on a roadblock, and researching the big concepts we were going to have to conquer.  While our team accomplished a lot on the days I was team lead, I felt like I had not personally achieved much, even though I know what I did helped move the team forward.  Simply sitting next to someone who is hitting a blocker and looking at it from a fresh perspective often helps move them past the blocker, even when all I did was ask questions.
